# Internet Made Real: Final 

Much of our class this semester has dealt with the differing realities and ramifications of the internet as a system that has shaped and been shaped by the modern world. 

For the  final assignment of the class, your assignment is to write a paper that focuses on one technical, political, or cultural aspect of the internet (you can interpret this as narrowly or as broadly as you like). You are tasked with historically situating your topic and answer the following questions: What are the benefits and contradictions inherent within this technology/policy/reality/? What kind of future do you see for this aspect of the Internet? What futures would you like to imagine? Are your answers to the latter two things different, and if so, why? 

You can focus on a topic that we have talked about in class, but you're also free to write about an internet-related topic that we didn't get to (see the examples below). You should produce a **5-7** page paper that you'll turn in by **December 12** (using the homework form). On December 12, you'll also have to do an **in-class presentation** of the topic that you chose to focus on. Your presentation should be at least 5 slides, and you'll present to the rest of the class (you'll each have a max of 10 minutes for presenting, 5 minutes questions). Your final assessment will include both your paper and your presentation. 

Here are some examples of prompts (you are more than welcome to use any of these, but also encouraged to come up with your own topics):

- As Alexander Galloway has observed, the internet, like many other forms of media, has a tendency to "conceal its source". What does this look like in practical terms, and what are the consequences and affordances of this? 
- [ASCII](http://ascii-world.wikidot.com/), the American Standard Code for Information Interchange, was created to solve the problem of computers representing text characters in a standard way. However, its creation only focused initially on the English language, leaving millions of people excluded from the ability to participate in web-based conversations (until the creation of Unicode). Explain the history of ASCII—was it an encoding of imperialist tendencies, the inevitable result of needs for standardization, or something completely different? Do we still see similar prioritizations in the internet today, or have our problems changed?? 
- [In 2012, Syria disappeared from the internet almost entirely](http://citizen-ex.com/stories/sy). What does this account of the fragility of Syria's internet presence tell us about the internet, access, and governance? Given the structure of internet governance (and the power that governments operate over virtual and digital spaces), is there any opportunity for freedom online, and the freedom to be online? 
- Many members of Onionland or Torland (known more colloquially as the Dark Web) insist that it represents the characteristics that the internet was meant to have: anonymity and total freedom. Is this true, and if so, what does it mean that this supposed anonymity comes at the expense of easy accessibility? See [OnionScan](https://mascherari.press/onionscan-report-fhii-a-new-map-and-the-future/). 
- What does it take to lay new internet cables (fiber-optic or copper), and who operates these services? Why are certain countries less connected than others? Are there realistic ways that more countries can be better connected in the future or are there more powerful gains to being partly off the grid? 


For citations, note that while Chicago style is preferred, any format (MLA, APA, etc) may be used as long as you are consistent. 
